=head1 NAME

TUWF::Misc - Miscellaneous utility functions and methods for TUWF

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides a few methods for the main TUWF object and optionally
exports a few handy functions. The methods can be used from within any TUWF
website without requiring any additional magic, TUWF automatically loads this
module at initialization.

The exported functions can be imported through TUWF (C<use TUWF 'uri_escape';>)
or by using this module directly (C<use TUWF::Misc 'uri_escape';>). The latter
form is useful if you wish to use a function outside of the TUWF framework.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 formValidate(@fields)

I<TODO>

=head2 mail(body, header => value, ..)

Very simple email sending function. The C<Content-Type> header defaults to
C<text/plain; charset='UTF-8'>, and the C<From> header to the
L<mail_from|TUWF/mail_from> configuration setting. The mail is sent using the
sendmail program configured with L<mail_sendmail|TUWF/mail_sendmail>, you
should make sure both that option is correct and the server is configured to
allow using the sendmail program to actually send mail.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 uri_escape(string)

Percent-encodes the given string and returns a string suitable for use as a
parameter value in a URI. The given string is assumed to be in Perls native
unicode format, and the escaped string will have UTF-8 encoded
percent-escaping.

This function is equivalent to C<uri_escape_utf8()> provided by
L<URI::Escape|URI::Escape>, and the C<encodeURIComponent()> function in
JavaScript.

=head2 kv_validate(sources, templates, fields)

I<TODO>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<TUWF>, L<URI::Escape>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Yoran Heling.

This module is part of the TUWF framework and is free software available under
the liberal MIT license. See the COPYING file in the TUWF distribution for the
details.


=head1 AUTHOR

Yoran Heling <projects@yorhel.nl>

=cut

